src/pages/about.mdx, before:

---
layout: ../layouts/AboutLayout.astro
title: "About"
description: "Robert Miller — enterprise sales turned crypto-native operator. Writing about technology, markets, and the systems that shape both."
---

I'm Robert Miller. I live in Biarritz, on the French Basque coast.

I started in enterprise software sales, discovered Bitcoin in 2013, and went fully crypto-native by 2016. Since then I've spent most of my career at the intersection of technology, community, and growth.

My last operational role was VP of Growth at [Fuse](https://www.fuse.io/) — an Israeli payments platform that became an L2 on Ethereum. I helped build the ecosystem from the ground up: shaping the vision, writing the narrative, bringing in investors and developers, and creating a sense of belonging that held the project together through the usual chaos of early-stage crypto.

My role has always been the connective tissue — making sense of what's being built, communicating it clearly, and bringing the right people together to make it real. Vision, writing, BD, and community. The work that sits between the product and the world.

For the past couple of years I've been trading markets and doing some inner work. Now I'm turning my attention to what's next — specifically the emerging world of startup nations, network states, and autonomous communities. I'm deeply interested in how we build new systems from scratch, not just new products.

This site is where I think out loud about all of it. Technology, markets, human systems, and the occasional field report from real life.

If you'd like to get in touch, reach me at [robert@robertmillerconsultancy.com](mailto:robert@robertmillerconsultancy.com).

Commit message:

Add Paris Blockchain Week photo to About, remove redundant name intro

src/pages/about.mdx, after:

---
layout: ../layouts/AboutLayout.astro
title: "About"
description: "Robert Miller — enterprise sales turned crypto-native operator. Writing about technology, markets, and the systems that shape both."
---

![Robert Miller at Paris Blockchain Week](/robert-paris-blockchain-week.jpg)

Based in Biarritz, on the French Basque coast.

I started in enterprise software sales, discovered Bitcoin in 2013, and went fully crypto-native by 2016. Since then I've spent most of my career at the intersection of technology, community, and growth.

My last operational role was VP of Growth at [Fuse](https://www.fuse.io/) — an Israeli payments platform that became an L2 on Ethereum. I helped build the ecosystem from the ground up: shaping the vision, writing the narrative, bringing in investors and developers, and creating a sense of belonging that held the project together through the usual chaos of early-stage crypto.

My role has always been the connective tissue — making sense of what's being built, communicating it clearly, and bringing the right people together to make it real. Vision, writing, BD, and community. The work that sits between the product and the world.

For the past couple of years I've been trading markets and doing some inner work. Now I'm turning my attention to what's next — specifically the emerging world of startup nations, network states, and autonomous communities. I'm deeply interested in how we build new systems from scratch, not just new products.

This site is where I think out loud about all of it. Technology, markets, human systems, and the occasional field report from real life.

If you'd like to get in touch, reach me at [robert@robertmillerconsultancy.com](mailto:robert@robertmillerconsultancy.com).
